<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/federal-reserve-system-new-york.htm -->
<!-- title: Federal Reserve Board - Federal Reserve Bank of New York -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T03:59:58.025509Z -->

Overview: Federal Reserve System Boards of Directors
Boston
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
John C. Williams
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
John C. Williams took office on June 18, 2018, as the 11th president and chief executive officer of the Second District, Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In that capacity, he serves as the vice chairman and a permanent member of the Federal Open Market Committee, the group responsible for formulating the nation’s monetary policy.
Mr. Williams was previously the president and chief executive officer of the 12th District, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. Prior to that, he was the executive vice president and director of research for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, which he joined in 2002.
Mr. Williams began his career as an economist in 1994, when he joined the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, following the completion of his PhD in economics at Stanford University. He became senior economist at the Board in 1998 and served on loan from 1999 to 2000 as senior economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers. He subsequently returned to the Board, where he remained until he joined the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.
Mr. Williams's research focuses on topics, including monetary policy under uncertainty and imperfect information, macroeconomics, learning, research and development, innovation, productivity, and business cycles. He has collaborated with economists from throughout the country and across the globe to examine economic and policy issues from different perspectives and has published numerous articles in leading research journals.
Mr. Williams has been a research associate for the Centre for Applied Macroeconomic Analysis since 2008. He was the managing editor of the
International Journal of Central Banking
and previously served as associate editor of the
American Economic Review
and the
Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control
. Additionally, he has been a lecturer at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business.
Prior to completing his doctorate at Stanford, Mr. Williams earned a masters of science with distinction in economics from the London School of Economics in 1989 and an AB with high distinction from the University of California at Berkeley in 1984.
He is married and has two teenage sons.
View More
Head office at New York, New York.
Covers the state of New York; Fairfield County in Connecticut; and 12 counties in northern New Jersey, and serves the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Website:
https://www.newyorkfed.org/
Branches
The Federal Reserve officially identifies Districts by number and Reserve Bank city.
The System serves commonwealths and territories as follows: the New York Bank serves the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands; the San Francisco Bank serves American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. In the 12th District, the Seattle Branch serves Alaska, and the San Francisco Bank serves Hawaii. The Board of Governors revised the branch boundaries of the System in February 1996.
List of Directors
President and Chief Executive Officer
Peapack Private Bank & Trust
Bedminster, New Jersey
2025
President and Chief Executive Officer
1st National Bank of Scotia and Glenville Bank Holding Company
Scotia, New York
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
M&T Bank Corporation
President and Chief Executive Officer
Nasdaq
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
IBM
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
RXR
President and Chief Executive Officer
Healthfirst
The Rockefeller Foundation
New York, New York
Director of Education & Training
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, and President
New York Theatrical Wardrobe Union, Local 764
New York, New York