<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed.htm -->
<!-- title: Federal Reserve Board - About the Fed -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T03:59:56.719882Z -->

Accessible Keys for Video
[Space Bar]
seeks the video forwards and back (5 sec );
[Up/Down Arrows]
increase/decrease volume;
[M]
toggles fullscreen on/off (Except IE 11);
The
key may be used in combination with the
[Enter/Return]
key to navigate and activate control buttons, such as caption on/off.
The Federal Reserve System is the central bank of the United States. It performs five general functions to promote the effective operation of the U.S. economy and, more generally, the public interest. The Federal Reserve
conducts the nation’s monetary policy to promote maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates in the U.S. economy;
promotes the stability of the financial system and seeks to minimize and contain systemic risks through active monitoring and engagement in the U.S. and abroad;
promotes the safety and soundness of individual financial institutions and monitors their impact on the financial system as a whole;
fosters payment and settlement system safety and efficiency through services to the banking industry and the U.S. government that facilitate U.S.-dollar transactions and payments; and
promotes consumer protection and community development through consumer-focused supervision and examination, research and analysis of emerging consumer issues and trends, community economic development activities, and the administration of consumer laws and regulations.
Board Members
Vice Chair for Supervision
Michael S. Barr
Christopher J. Waller
Fed Financial Reports
Strategic Plan
Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA)
Reading Rooms
Holidays Observed - K.8
FOMC Calendar
Statistical Release Calendar
Beige Book Calendar
Board Meetings Calendar
Fed 101
What is the purpose of the Federal Reserve System?
Economic Education
Federal Reserve History
Oral History Interviews
Federal Reserve Act
Overview: Federal Reserve System Boards of Directors
Bank Presidents by District
Contact Us
Federal Reserve Banks
The Federal Reserve officially identifies Districts by number and Reserve Bank city.
In the 12th District, the Seattle Branch serves Alaska, and the San Francisco Bank serves Hawaii. The System serves commonwealths and territories as follows: the New York Bank serves the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands; the San Francisco Bank serves American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. The Board of Governors revised the branch boundaries of the System in February 1996.
Last Update: