<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/MA-org-chart-accessible.htm -->
<!-- title: The Fed - Division of Monetary Affairs -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T04:00:04.039843Z -->

Division of Monetary Affairs
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Division of Monetary Affairs
June 1, 2025
Director, Trevor Reeve
192
Deputy Director, Elizabeth Klee
Senior Advisor, Rochelle Edge
Senior Associate Director, Margaret DeBoer
Deputy Associate Director, Karen Brooks
Reserves Function Management
Deputy Associate Director, Laura Lipscomb
1
Monetary Policy Operations and Analysis, Matt Malloy, Chief
Senior Associate Director, Min Wei
Adviser, Mark Carlson
Banking and Financial Analysis, Felicia Ionescu, Chief
Deputy Associate Director, Dan Li
Financial Intermediaries Analysis, Lubomir Petrasek, Chief
Senior Associate Director, David Bowman
Senior Adviser, Jane Ihrig
2
Associate Director, Christopher Gust
Deputy Associate Director, Zeynep Senyuz
3
Money Market Analysis
4
, Sebastian Infante Bilbao, Chief
Assistant Director, Benjamin Johannsen
Monetary Studies,
Senior Adviser, Robert Tetlow
6
Deputy Director, Michael Kiley
7
Senior Associate Director, David Lopez‑Salido
Deputy Associate Director, Giovanni Favara
Macro-Financial Analysis, Andrea Ajello, Chief
Senior Adviser, Annette Vissing‑Jorgensen
Associate Director, Eric Engstrom
8
Deputy Associate Director, Andrew Meldrum
Monetary and Financial Market Analysis, Edith Liu, Chief
Senior Adviser, Don Kim
Deputy Director, Nelly Ramdass
Senior Associate Director, Katherine Sickbert
Monetary Statistics and Analysis, Lena Yemelyanov, Chief
Assistant Director, Keith Kudrycki
User Experience and Digital Innovation, Jill Mino, Chief
Senior Associate Director, Matthew Luecke
Deputy Associate Director, Brian Bonis
FOMC Secretariat, Valerie Hinojosa, Chief
Deputy Associate Director, Elizabeth Marx
Operations and Resource Management, Rima Assiryani, Chief
Front Office, Nicole Haroon, Chief
Secretary of the FOMC, Joshua Gallin
Senior Adviser, Edward Nelson
Adviser
Senior Advisor, Vacant
1. Laura Lipscomb is on detail to the Division of Board Members working with Governor Barr.
Return to text.
2. Jane Ihrig is on detail to the Division of Board Members working with Governor Waller.
Return to text.
3. Zeynep Senyuz is on detail to the Division of Board Members working with Vice Chair Jefferson.
Return to text.
4. Money Market Analysis reports to Christopher Gust to David Bowman to Elizabeth Klee.
Return to text.
5. Monetary Studies reports to Benjamin Johannsen to Christopher Gust to David Lopez-Salido to Michael Kiley.
Return to text.
6. Robert Tetlow reports to Christopher Gust to David Lopez-Salido to Michael Kiley.
Return to text.
7. Michael Kiley is also a Special Adviser to the Board reporting directly to Michelle Smith in BDM.
Return to text.
8. Eric Engstrom also has Associate Director responsibility in the Division of Research and Statistics.
Return to text.
9. Kurt Lewis is on detail to the Division of Board Members working for Chair Powell.
Return to text.