<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/section18.htm -->
<!-- title: Federal Reserve Board - Section 18. Refunding Bonds -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T04:00:01.603018Z -->

Section 1. Short title and definitions
Section 2. Federal Reserve Districts
Section 2A. Monetary policy objectives
Section 2B. Appearances Before and Reports to the Congress
Section 3. Branch Offices
Section 4. Federal Reserve Banks
Section 5. Stock Issues; Increase and Decrease of Capital
Section 6. Insolvency of member banks
Section 7. Division of Earnings
Section 8. Conversion of state banks into national banks
Section 9. State Banks as Members
Section 9A. Participation in lotteries prohibited
Section 9B. Resolution of Clearing Banks
Section 10. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Section 10A. Emergency advances to groups of member banks*
Section 10B. Advances to Individual Member Banks*
Section 11. Powers of Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Section 11A. Pricing of Services
Section 11B. Annual Independent Audits of Federal Reserve Banks and Board
Section 11C. Master Account and Services Database
Section 12. Federal Advisory Council
Section 12A. Federal Open Market Committee
Section 13. Powers of Federal Reserve Banks
Section 13A.* Discount of agricultural paper
Section 14. Open-Market Operations
Section 15. Government Deposits
Section 16. Note Issues
Section 17. Deposit of bonds by national banks
Section 18. Refunding Bonds
Section 19. Bank Reserves
Section 20. National bank notes redemption fund as reserve
Section 21. Bank Examinations
Section 22. Offenses of examiners, member banks, officers, and directors
Section 23. Interbank Liabilities*
Section 23A. Relations with affiliates
Section 23B. Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates
Section 24. Real Estate Loans
Section 24A. Investment in Bank Premises or Stock of Corporation Holding Premises
Section 25. Foreign Branches
Section 25A. Banking Corporations Authorized to Do Foreign Banking Business*
Section 25B. Jurisdiction of suits*
Section 25C. Potential Liability on Foreign Accounts
Section 26. [Repealed]
Section 27. Tax on national bank notes
Section 28. Reduction of capital of national banks
Section 29. Civil Money Penalty
Section 30. Saving clause
Section 31. Reservation of right to amend
Section 18. Refunding Bonds
1. Application to sell bonds securing circulation
After two years from the passage of this Act, and at any time during a period of twenty years thereafter, any member bank desiring to retire the whole or any part of its circulating notes, may file with the Treasurer of the United States an application to sell for its account, at par and accrued interest, United States bonds securing circulation to be retired.
[Formerly 12 USC 441 but since 1994 omitted from the U.S. Code as obsolete. Part of original Federal Reserve Act; not amended. On March 11, 1935, the Secretary of the Treasury called for redemption on July 1, 1935, and Aug. 1, 1935, respectively, the only bonds of the United States bearing the circulating privilege after July 22, 1935, namely the 2 percent Consols of 1930 and the 2 percent Panama Canal Loan bonds of 1916-36 and 1918-38.]
2. Purchase of bonds by Federal reserve banks
The Treasurer shall, at the end of each quarterly period, furnish the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System with a list of such applications, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may, in its discretion, require the Federal reserve banks to purchase such bonds from the banks whose applications have been filed with the Treasurer at least ten days before the end of any quarterly period at which the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may direct the purchase to be made:
Provided
, That Federal reserve banks shall not be permitted to purchase an amount to exceed $25,000,000 of such bonds in any one year, and which amount shall include bonds acquired under section four of this Act by the Federal reserve bank.
[Formerly 12 USC 442 but since 1994 omitted from the U.S. Code as obsolete. Part of original Federal Reserve Act; not amended.]
3. Allotment of bonds to be purchased
Provided further,
That the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall allot to each Federal reserve bank such proportion of such bonds as the capital and surplus of such bank shall bear to the aggregate capital and surplus of all the Federal reserve banks.
[Formerly 12 USC 442 but since 1994 omitted from the U.S. Code as obsolete. As amended by acts of June 21, 1917 (40 Stat. 236); Jan. 30, 1934 (48 Stat. 338); June 12, 1945 (59 Stat. 237); July 19, 1954 (68 Stat. 495); March 3, 1965 (79 Stat. 5); May 20, 1966 (80 Stat. 161); and March 18, 1968 (82 Stat. 50).]
4. Transfer and payment
Upon notice from the Treasurer of the amount of bonds so sold for its account, each member bank shall duly assign and transfer, in writing, such bonds to the Federal reserve bank purchasing the same, and such Federal reserve bank shall, thereupon, deposit lawful money with the Treasurer of the United States for the purchase price of such bonds, and the Treasurer shall pay to the member bank selling such bonds any balance due after deducting a sufficient sum to redeem its outstanding notes secured by such bonds, which notes shall be canceled and permanently retired when redeemed.
[Formerly 12 USC 443 but since 1994 omitted from the U.S. Code as obsolete. Part of original Federal Reserve Act; not amended.]
5. Federal reserve bank notes
The Federal reserve banks purchasing such bonds shall be permitted to take out an amount of circulating notes equal to the par value of such bonds.
[Formerly 12 USC 444 but since 1994 omitted from the U.S. Code as obsolete. Part of original Federal Reserve Act; not amended.]
6. Collateral for notes; form and tenor; redemption; etc.
Upon the deposit with the Treasurer of the United States, (a) of any direct obligations of the United States or (b) of any notes, drafts, bills of exchange, or bankers' acceptances acquired under the provisions of this Act, any Federal reserve bank making such deposit in the manner prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury shall be entitled to receive from the Secretary of the Treasury circulating notes in blank, duly registered and countersigned. When such circulating notes are issued against the security of obligations of the United States, the amount of such circulating notes shall be equal to the face value of the direct obligations of the United States so deposited as security; and, when issued against the security of notes, drafts, bills of exchange and bankers' acceptances acquired under the provisions of this Act, the amount thereof shall be equal to not more than 90 per cent of the estimated value of such notes, drafts, bills of exchange and bankers' acceptances so deposited as security. Such notes shall be the obligations of the Federal reserve bank procuring the same, shall be in form prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, shall be receivable at par in all parts of the United States for the same purposes as are national bank notes, and shall be redeemable in lawful money of the United States on presentation at the United States Treasury or at the bank of issue. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and empowered to prescribe regulations governing the issuance, redemption, replacement, retirement and destruction of such circulating notes and the release and substitution of security therefor. Such circulating notes shall be subject to the same tax as is provided by law for the circulating notes of national banks secured by 2 per cent bonds of the United States. No such circulating notes shall be issued under this paragraph after the President has declared by proclamation that the emergency recognized by the President by proclamation of March 6, 1933, has terminated, unless such circulating notes are secured by deposits of bonds of the United States bearing the circulation privilege. When required to do so by the Secretary of the Treasury, each Federal reserve agent shall act as agent of the Treasurer of the United States or of the Secretary of the Treasury, or both, for the performance of any of the functions which the Treasurer or the Secretary of the Treasury may be called upon to perform in carrying out the provisions of this paragraph. Appropriations available for distinctive paper and printing United States currency or national bank currency are hereby made available for the production of the circulating notes of Federal reserve banks herein provided; but the United States shall be reimbursed by the Federal reserve bank to which such notes are issued for all expenses necessarily incurred in connection with the procuring of such notes and all other expenses incidental to their issue, redemption, replacement, retirement and destruction.
[Formerly 12 USC 445 but since 1994 omitted from the U.S. Code as obsolete. As amended by acts of March 9, 1933 (48 Stat. 6); June 12, 1945 (59 Stat. 238); and Sept. 23, 1994 (108 Stat. 2293). This paragraph was in effect repealed by section 3 of the act of June 12, 1945, which provided:
"All power and authority with respect to the issuance of circulating notes, known as Federal Reserve bank notes, pursuant to the sixth paragraph of section 18 of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended by section 401 of the Act approved March 9, 1933 (48 Stat. 1, 6), shall cease and terminate on the date of enactment of this Act."
As to redemption of Federal Reserve bank notes when the bank of issue cannot be identified, see section 2 of the act of June 13, 1933 (12 USC 122a).]
7. Exchange of 2 percent gold bonds for 1-year gold notes and 30-year 3 percent gold bonds
Upon application of any Federal reserve bank, approved by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Secretary of the Treasury may issue, in exchange for United States two per centum gold bonds bearing the circulation privilege, but against which no circulation is outstanding, one-year gold notes of the United States without the circulation privilege, to an amount not to exceed one-half of the two per centum bonds so tendered for exchange, and thirty-year three per centum gold bonds without the circulation privilege for the remainder of the two per centum bonds so tendered:
Provided
, That at the time of such exchange the Federal reserve bank obtaining such one-year gold notes shall enter into an obligation with the Secretary of the Treasury binding itself to purchase from the United States for gold at the maturity of such one-year notes, an amount equal to those delivered in exchange for such bonds, if so requested by the Secretary, and at each maturity of one-year notes so purchased by such Federal reserve bank, to purchase from the United States such an amount of one-year notes as the Secretary may tender to such bank, not to exceed the amount issued to such bank in the first instance, in exchange for the two per centum United States gold bonds; said obligation to purchase at maturity such notes shall continue in force for a period not to exceed thirty years.
[Formerly 12 USC 446 but since 1994 omitted from the U.S. Code as obsolete. Part of original Federal Reserve Act; not amended.]
8. Issue of 1-year Treasury notes and 30-year 3 percent gold bonds
For the purpose of making the exchange herein provided for, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to issue at par Treasury notes in coupon or registered form as he may prescribe in denominations of one hundred dollars, or any multiple thereof, bearing interest at the rate of three per centum per annum, payable quarterly, such Treasury notes to be payable not more than one year from the date of their issue in gold coin of the present standard value, and to be exempt as to principal and interest from the payment of all taxes and duties of the United States except as provided by this Act, as well as from taxes in any form by or under State, municipal, or local authorities. And for the same purpose, the Secretary is authorized and empowered to issue United States gold bonds at par, bearing three per centum interest payable thirty years from date of issue, such bonds to be of the same general tenor and effect and to be issued under the same general terms and conditions as the United States three per centum bonds without the circulation privilege now issued and outstanding.
[Formerly 12 USC 447 but since 1994 omitted from the U.S. Code as obsolete. Part of original Federal Reserve Act; not amended.]
9. Exchange of 3 percent bonds for 1-year notes
Upon application of any Federal reserve bank, approved by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Secretary may issue at par such three per centum bonds in exchange for the one-year gold notes therein provided for.
[Formerly 12 USC 448 but since 1994 omitted from the U.S. Code as obsolete. Part of original Federal Reserve Act; not amended.]
Back to Top