<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/federal-reserve-system-philadelphia.htm -->
<!-- title: Federal Reserve Board - Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T03:59:58.078644Z -->

Overview: Federal Reserve System Boards of Directors
Boston
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
Anna L. Paulson
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
Anna L. Paulson took office on July 1, 2025, as the 12th president and chief executive officer of the Third District, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.
Previously, Dr. Paulson served as executive vice president and director of research at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. In that role, she led the Bank’s research and policy analysis work and oversaw the department that provides analytic support for monetary policymaking and conducts research on banking and financial markets, macroeconomics, microeconomics, and the regional economy. Dr. Paulson also advised the Bank’s president and chief executive officer on monetary policy and participated in Federal Open Market Committee discussions.
She joined the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago in 2001 as an economist after completing a postdoctoral fellowship at Princeton University and serving as an assistant professor of finance at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management.
Dr. Paulson’s work has been published in leading academic journals such as the
Journal of Political Economy
,
Review of Economics and Statistics
, and
Review of Financial Studies
. She has served on the board of the Western Economic Association International and the Committee on the Status of Women in the Economics Profession.
Dr. Paulson received a BA from Carleton College and a PhD in economics from the University of Chicago.
View More
Ten Independence Mall
Philadelphia, PA 19106
(215) 574-6000
Money in Motion Exhibit
Head office at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
No branches.
Covers the state of Delaware; nine counties in southern New Jersey; and 48 counties in the eastern two-thirds of Pennsylvania.
Website:
https://www.philadelphiafed.org/
List of Directors
President and Chief Executive Officer
Fulton Bank and Fulton Financial Corporation
Lancaster, Pennsylvania
2025
President and Chief Executive Officer
Citizens Financial Services Inc. and First Citizens Community Bank
Mansfield, Pennsylvania
2026
President and Chief Executive Officer
The First National Bank of Elmer
Elmer, New Jersey
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
2025
Senior Vice President, External and Government Affairs
Comcast Corporation
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
2026
Sharmain Matlock-Turner
Chief Executive Officer
Urban Affairs Coalition
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
2027
Culligan Quench and Culligan Latin America
King of Prussia, Pennsylvania
2025
Crystal Steel Fabricators, Inc.
Delmar, Delaware
Kisha Hortman Hawthorne
SVP and COO, Care Network and Behavioral Health and Crisis Center
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
2027