<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/ethics-values.htm -->
<!-- title: Federal Reserve Board - Ethics and Values -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T03:59:57.485460Z -->

At the Federal Reserve we hold ourselves to the highest standards of integrity, transparency, and accountability in the pursuit of our important public mission.
The Federal Reserve is committed to upholding the highest ethical principles to strengthen public confidence in the impartiality of its decisionmaking processes. Employees of the Federal Reserve Board and Federal Reserve Banks are required to comply with a variety of ethics requirements to guard against actual and perceived conflicts of interest. These rules are found in federal statutes and regulations, in Reserve Bank codes of conduct, and in the policies of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). This web page is designed to provide information on these provisions and answers to frequently asked questions.
"These rules raise the bar high in order to assure the public we serve that all of our senior officials maintain a single-minded focus on the public mission of the Federal Reserve"
– Federal Reserve Chair Powell
Rules
The Board of Governors and its employees are subject to the same ethics rules as other executive branch employees of the federal government, in addition to certain Federal Reserve-specific rules. The Board also requires each Federal Reserve Bank to have a Code of Conduct that establishes similar ethics rules, thus ensuring that employees throughout the Federal Reserve System are held to the highest ethical standards.
Policymakers and employees whose work involves monetary policy hold some of the most sensitive positions in the Federal Reserve System and must be the most vigilant about potential conflicts and impartiality concerns. In February 2022, the
FOMC
requirements that further restrict the investments and trading of these individuals and their immediate family members. Together, these interconnected rules help safeguard the integrity of the FOMC decisionmaking process and promote a system that acts in the best interest of our nation’s monetary policy.
Financial Disclosures
Board members, Reserve Bank presidents, and senior staff file annual financial disclosures that are made publicly available. They are also required to publicly disclose transactions involving stocks, bonds, commodity futures, and other securities no later than 45 days after the transaction.
Last Update: