<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/cac-privacy.htm -->
<!-- title: Federal Reserve Board - PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT FOR APPLICATION FOR APPOINTMENT TO THE COMMUNITY ADVISORY COUNCIL ("CAC") -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T04:00:03.302709Z -->

PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT FOR APPLICATION FOR APPOINTMENT TO THE COMMUNITY ADVISORY COUNCIL ("CAC")
PURPOSES AND USES
This Privacy Act Statement is provided for individuals interested in appointment to the Community Advisory Council established by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Board"). The information you submit will be used to evaluate your qualifications, suitability, and availability for service on the CAC. The information may also be used to contact you concerning your interest in serving on the CAC.
AUTHORITY
Sections 2A and 10 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. § 225a, 12 U.S.C. § 244) give the Board general authority to collect information from persons seeking to be considered for membership on the CAC.
EFFECTS OF NONDISCLOSURE
Information that you provide in support of your candidacy will be considered in reviewing your application to serve on the CAC. Some of the information you submit on the application is mandatory (resume, cover letter, expertise, affiliation, and contact information) and some of the information you submit is optional (secondary area of expertise). Applications omitting mandatory items will be deemed incomplete and not considered in the review for CAC membership.
ROUTINE USES
The information you provide will be stored in the system of records entitled "BGFRS–39–General File of the Community Advisory Council." All or part of the information you provide the Board in support of your candidacy may be disclosed outside the Board for the following reasons:
1)
Disclosure for enforcement, statutory, and regulatory purposes.
Information may be disclosed to the appropriate federal, state, local, foreign, or self-regulatory organization or agency responsible for investigating, prosecuting, enforcing, implementing, issuing, or carrying out a statute, rule, regulation, order, policy, or license if the information may be relevant to a potential violation of civil or criminal law, rule, regulation, order, policy, or license.
2)
Disclosure to another agency or a Federal Reserve Bank.
Information may be disclosed to a federal agency in the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of government, or to a Federal Reserve Bank, in connection with the hiring, retaining, or assigning of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the conducting of a security or suitability investigation of an individual, the classifying of jobs, the letting of a contract, the issuance of a license, grant, or other benefits by the receiving entity, or the lawful statutory, administrative, or investigative purpose of the receiving entity to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the receiving entity's decision on the matter.
3)
Disclosure to a member of Congress.
Information may be disclosed to a congressional office in response to an inquiry from the congressional office made at the request of the individual to whom the record pertains.
4)
Disclosure to the Department of Justice, a court, an adjudicative body, or administrative tribunal, or a party in litigation.
Information may be disclosed to the Department of Justice, a court, an adjudicative body or administrative tribunal, a party in litigation, or a witness if the Board (or, in the case of an Office of the Inspector General (OIG) system, the OIG) determines, in its sole discretion, that the information is relevant and necessary to the matter.
5)
Disclosure to federal, state, local, and professional licensing boards.
Information may be disclosed to federal, state, local, foreign, and professional licensing boards, including a bar association, a Board of Medical Examiners, a state board of accountancy, or a similar governmental or nongovernmental entity that maintains records concerning the issuance, retention, or revocation of licenses, certifications, or registrations relevant to practicing an occupation, profession, or specialty.
6)
Disclosure to the EEOC, MSPB, OGE, and OSC.
Information may be disclosed to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Merit Systems Protection Board, the Office of Government Ethics, or the Office of Special Counsel to the extent determined to be relevant and necessary to carrying out their authorized functions.
7)
Disclosure to contractors, agents, and others.
Information may be disclosed to contractors, agents, or others performing work on a contract, service, cooperative agreement, job, or other activity for the Board and who have a need to access the information in the performance of their duties or activities for the Board.
8)
Disclosure to facilitate a response to a breach of the Board.
Information may be disclosed to appropriate agencies, entities, and persons when: (1) the Board suspects or has confirmed that there has been a breach of the system of records; (2) the Board has determined that as a result of the suspected or confirmed breach there is a risk of harm to individuals or the Board (including its information systems, programs, and operations), the Federal Government, or national security; and (3) the disclosure made to such agencies, entities, and persons is reasonably necessary to assist in connection with the Board's efforts to respond to the suspected or confirmed breach or to prevent, minimize, or remedy such harm.
9)
Disclosure to assist another Federal Agency or Federal Entity in responding to a breach.
Information may be disclosed to another federal agency or federal entity, when the Board determines that the information from the system of records is reasonably necessary to assist the recipient agency or entity in (1) responding to a suspected or confirmed breach, or (2) preventing, minimizing, or remedying the risk of harm to individuals, the recipient agency or entity (including its information systems, programs, and operations), the Federal Government, or national security, resulting from a suspected or confirmed breach.
Back to Top