<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/ombuds.htm -->
<!-- title: Federal Reserve Board - Ombuds -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T03:59:57.860248Z -->

Whistleblower Reporting
Careers
Comments on Regulations
Independent Foreclosure Review
Main Telephone/TDD
General Comments for the Chair and the Board of Governors
Publications
Freedom of Information (FOIA)
Other Agencies
Privacy Act Statement for Contact Us and CBDC Form
Ombuds
MSD Appeal Final Decision Letters
Policy for Appealing Material Supervisory Determinations
Federal Reserve Consumer Help Program
Whistleblower Reporting
Who is the Ombuds?
In 1995, the Board of Governors established the position of Ombuds to facilitate the fair and timely resolution of complaints related to the Federal Reserve System's regulatory activities. The Ombuds serves as an independent, confidential resource for individuals and institutions that are affected by the Federal Reserve System's regulatory and supervisory actions.
See the Board's
concerning the Ombuds function for more information.
When to contact us:
Anytime you need assistance resolving an issue related to the Federal Reserve System's regulatory activities
To discuss an issue confidentially
If you have questions regarding Federal Reserve System regulatory processes or procedures
If you believe that your institution has been subjected to retaliatory conduct by a member of Federal Reserve System staff
How to contact us
The Ombuds operates secure e-mail and dedicated telephone and fax lines.
E-Mail:
Federal Reserve Board
20
& C Streets, NW, Mail Stop M-4375
Washington, D.C. 20551
Role of the Ombuds
What does the Ombuds do?
Facilitate the resolution of questions and complaints related to the Federal Reserve System's regulatory activities
Ensure that complaints about Board or Reserve Bank actions are addressed in a fair and timely manner
Report to the Board on issues that are likely to have a significant impact on the System that arise from the Ombuds' review of complaints
Receive, review, and decide complaints that a member of Federal Reserve System staff acted in a retaliatory manner against a supervised institution
Advise institutions regarding formal processes for resolving disputes, including procedures for
appealing material supervisory determinations
What does the Ombuds
Make decisions, except with respect to allegations of retaliatory conduct
Take sides; rather, the Ombuds maintains an independent and neutral position
Address enforcement matters or matters involved in litigation
Delay regulatory, legal, or other Federal Reserve actions or deadlines
Serve as a formal office of legal notice for the Federal Reserve
Handle complaints concerning internal Board functions, such as personnel or procurement
What is retaliation?
Retaliation is defined as any action or decision by Reserve Bank or Board staff that causes a supervised institution or its employees (“supervised persons”) to be treated differently or more harshly than other similarly situated institutions because the supervised person attempted to resolve a complaint by filing an appeal of a material supervisory determination or utilized any other Board mechanisms for resolving complaints.
Retaliation includes, but is not limited to, delaying or denying action that might benefit a supervised person without a sound supervisory reason or subjecting a supervised institution to heightened examination standards without a sound supervisory reason.
How can a supervised person submit a claim of retaliation?
A supervised person may submit a claim of retaliation with the Board's Ombuds by e-mail at
[email protected]
or by phone at 1-800-337-0429.
Ombuds Practices
The Ombuds operates independently of the Federal Reserve System's supervisory and regulatory processes.
Confidentiality
The Ombuds has established safeguards to protect confidentiality. Except in unusual circumstances, the Ombuds will not disclose information or material provided by a complainant, including identity, unless expressly authorized by the complainant in order to assist in resolving an issue.
Fairness and Integrity
The Board of Governors has a strict anti-retaliation policy. The Ombuds is responsible for receiving, reviewing, and deciding any complaints that a member of Federal Reserve System staff acted in a retaliatory manner against a supervised institution.
Other Resources
Consumer questions and complaints:
Independent of the Ombuds function, the Federal Reserve System maintains a
consumer help program
to assist individuals who are experiencing issues with their financial institutions.
Institutions supervised by other regulators:
The Federal Reserve System regulates state member banks, bank holding companies, and some other types of financial institutions. The other financial regulatory agencies also have Ombuds programs.
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Regulates national banks
1-800-613-6743
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Regulates state chartered banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System
1-877-275-3342 (1-877-ASK-FDIC)
National Credit Union Administration
Regulates credit unions
1-703-518-1140
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Administers federal consumer protection laws
1-855-830-7880