<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/federal-reserve-system-chicago.htm -->
<!-- title: Federal Reserve Board - Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T03:59:58.390522Z -->

Overview: Federal Reserve System Boards of Directors
Boston
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Austan D. Goolsbee
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Austan D. Goolsbee took office on January 9, 2023, as the 10th president and chief executive officer of the Seventh District, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
Before taking office at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Dr. Goolsbee served as the Robert P. Gwinn Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, where he first joined the faculty in 1995.
Dr. Goolsbee served as a member and then chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers from 2009 through 2011 and was a member of President Barack Obama's cabinet. He has also served on the Board of Education for the City of Chicago, the Economic Advisory Panel to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Panel of Economic Advisers to the Congressional Budget Office, the U.S. Census Advisory Committee, the Digital Economy Board of Advisors to the Commerce Department, and the External Advisory Group on Digital Technology for the International Monetary Fund.
He is known for his empirical research on economic policy, among many other industries, and was named a Fulbright Scholar in 2006 and an Alfred P. Sloan Fellow in 2000.
Dr. Goolsbee has a PhD in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a BA and MA in economics from Yale University. He is married and has three children.
View More
230 South LaSalle Street
Chicago, IL 60604
Head office at Chicago, Illinois.
Branch Bank at Detroit, Michigan.
Covers the state of Iowa; 68 counties of northern Indiana; 58 counties of northern Illinois; 68 counties of southern Michigan; and 46 counties of southern Wisconsin.
Website:
https://www.chicagofed.org/
Branches
1600 East Warren Avenue, Detroit, MI 48207-1063
P.O. Box 1059, Detroit, MI 48231
(313) 961-6880
Chief Executive Officer, First Bank, and
President, First of Waverly Corporation
Waverly, Iowa
Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer
Northern Trust
Former Executive Vice President, Chief Customer Officer
United Airlines, Inc.
Chicago, Illinois
President and Chief Executive Officer
Carhartt, Inc.
Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer
Health Care Service Corporation
Chicago, Illinois
President and Chief Executive Officer
UL Solutions
City Colleges of Chicago
Chicago, Illinois
Appointed by the Federal Reserve Bank:
Name
Chief Executive Officer
Bedrock Management Service LLC
Detroit, Michigan
Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder
Global Strategic Supply Solutions
Livonia, Michigan
Chief Executive Officer
Detroit Future City
Appointed by the Board of Governors:
Name
President and Chief Executive Officer
Bridgewater Interiors, LLC
Detroit, Michigan
President and Chief Executive Officer
Meijer
Grand Rapids, Michigan
2026
Grand Valley State University
Allendale, Michigan