<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/cac.htm -->
<!-- title: Federal Reserve Board - Community Advisory Council -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T03:59:57.646601Z -->

Community Advisory Council
The Federal Reserve Board's Community Advisory Council (CAC) is an advisory committee providing feedback and advice to the Board on issues affecting consumers and communities. The CAC is composed of experts and representatives from a wide variety of consumer and community development organizations and interests, including from such fields as affordable housing, community and economic development, employment and labor, financial services and technology, small business, and asset and wealth building. CAC members meet semiannually with the members of the Board in Washington, D.C. to provide a range of perspectives on the economic circumstances and financial services needs of consumers and communities, with a particular focus on the concerns of low- and moderate-income consumers and communities.
Thank you for your interest in the CAC. The application window is currently closed.
Members
Carlos J. Contreras III, Chair
President & CEO, Goodwill Industries of San Antonio
San Antonio, Texas
Bruce Schultz, Vice Chair
Senior Vice President, Community Development & Public Banking/CRA Officer, Gateway First Bank
Tulsa, Okla.
Vice President for Engagement & Associate Professor, Agricultural Economics, Purdue University
West Lafayette, Ind.
Co-Founder and Managing Partner, Blue Highway Capital
Biddeford, Maine
Strategic Initiatives & Operations Manager, South Carolina Department of Commerce
Columbia, S.C.
Senior Director of Programs, Patterson Family Foundation
Kansas City, Mo.
Executive Director, Summit Education Initiative
Akron, Ohio
Senior Vice President & Chief Impact Officer, Hawaii Community Foundation
Honolulu, Hawaii
CEO, Wilmington Alliance
Wilmington, Del.
Dean, Pacific Lutheran University School of Business
Tacoma, Wash.
Executive Director, Strengthen North Dakota
Souris, N.D.
CEO, Mission Asset Fund
San Francisco, Calif.
Justin Slattery
Executive Director, Belknap Economic Development Council
Laconia, N.H.
President & CEO, Pensacola Habitat for Humanity
Northwest Florida Community Land Trust
Pensacola, Fla.
Records of the meetings of the Community Advisory Council
2025
Privacy Act Statement
Back to Top