<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/section10b.htm#_ednref1 -->
<!-- title: Federal Reserve Board - Section 10B. Advances to Individual Member Banks* -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T04:00:05.714516Z -->

Section 1. Short title and definitions
Section 2. Federal Reserve Districts
Section 2A. Monetary policy objectives
Section 2B. Appearances Before and Reports to the Congress
Section 3. Branch Offices
Section 4. Federal Reserve Banks
Section 5. Stock Issues; Increase and Decrease of Capital
Section 6. Insolvency of member banks
Section 7. Division of Earnings
Section 8. Conversion of state banks into national banks
Section 9. State Banks as Members
Section 9A. Participation in lotteries prohibited
Section 9B. Resolution of Clearing Banks
Section 10. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Section 10A. Emergency advances to groups of member banks*
Section 10B. Advances to Individual Member Banks*
Section 11. Powers of Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Section 11A. Pricing of Services
Section 11B. Annual Independent Audits of Federal Reserve Banks and Board
Section 11C. Master Account and Services Database
Section 12. Federal Advisory Council
Section 12A. Federal Open Market Committee
Section 13. Powers of Federal Reserve Banks
Section 13A.* Discount of agricultural paper
Section 14. Open-Market Operations
Section 15. Government Deposits
Section 16. Note Issues
Section 17. Deposit of bonds by national banks
Section 18. Refunding Bonds
Section 19. Bank Reserves
Section 20. National bank notes redemption fund as reserve
Section 21. Bank Examinations
Section 22. Offenses of examiners, member banks, officers, and directors
Section 23. Interbank Liabilities*
Section 23A. Relations with affiliates
Section 23B. Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates
Section 24. Real Estate Loans
Section 24A. Investment in Bank Premises or Stock of Corporation Holding Premises
Section 25. Foreign Branches
Section 25A. Banking Corporations Authorized to Do Foreign Banking Business*
Section 25B. Jurisdiction of suits*
Section 25C. Potential Liability on Foreign Accounts
Section 26. [Repealed]
Section 27. Tax on national bank notes
Section 28. Reduction of capital of national banks
Section 29. Civil Money Penalty
Section 30. Saving clause
Section 31. Reservation of right to amend
Section 10B. Advances to Individual Member Banks*
(a) In General.
Any Federal Reserve bank, under rules and regulations prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may make advances to any member bank on its time or demand notes having maturities of not more than four months and which are secured to the satisfaction of such Federal Reserve bank.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Federal Reserve bank, under rules and regulations prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may make advances to any member bank on its time notes having such maturities as the Board may prescribe and which are secured by mortgage loans covering a one-to-four family residence. Such advances shall bear interest at a rate equal to the lowest discount rate in effect at such Federal Reserve bank on the date of such note.
[12 USC 347b(a). As added by act of Feb. 27, 1932 (47 Stat. 56); and amended by acts of Feb. 3, 1933 (47 Stat. 794); March 9, 1933 (48 Stat. 7); Aug. 23, 1935 (49 Stat. 705); Oct. 18, 1974 (88 Stat. 1368); March 31, 1980 (94 Stat. 140); and Dec. 19, 1991 (105 Stat. 2279).]
(b)
Limitations On Advances.
Limitation On Extended Periods. Except as provided in paragraph (2), no advances to any undercapitalized depository institution by any Federal Reserve bank under this section may be outstanding for more than 60 days in any 120-day period.
Viability Exception.
the head of the appropriate Federal banking agency certifies in advance in writing to the Federal Reserve bank that any depository institution is viable; or
the Board conducts an examination of any depository institution and the Chairman of the Board certifies in writing to the Federal Reserve bank that the institution is viable, the limitation contained in paragraph (1) shall not apply during the 60-day period beginning on the date such certification is received.
Extensions Of Period. The 60-day period may be extended for additional 60-day periods upon receipt by the Federal Reserve bank of additional written certifications under subparagraph (A) with respect to each such additional period.
Authority To Issue A Certificate Of Viability May Not Be Delegated. The authority of the head of any agency to issue a written certification of viability under this paragraph may not be delegated to any other person.
Extended Advances Subject To Paragraph (3). Notwithstanding paragraph (1), an undercapitalized depository institution which does not have a certificate of viability in effect under this paragraph may have advances outstanding for more than 60 days in any 120-day period if the Board elects to treat--
such institution as critically undercapitalized under paragraph (3); and
any such advance as an advance described in subparagraph (A)(i) of paragraph (3).
Advances To Critically Undercapitalized Depository Institutions.
Liability For Increased Loss. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if--
in the case of any critically undercapitalized depository institution--
any advance under this section to such institution is outstanding without payment having been demanded as of the end of the 5-day period beginning on the date the institution becomes a critically undercapitalized depository institution; or
any new advance is made to such institution under this section after the end of such period; and
after the end of that 5-day period, the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation incurs a loss exceeding the loss that the Corporation would have incurred if it had liquidated that institution as of the end of that period the Board shall, subject to the limitations in subparagraph (B), be liable to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for the excess loss, without regard to the terms of the advance or any collateral pledged to secure the advance.
Limitation On Excess Loss. The liability of the Board under subparagraph (A) shall not exceed the lesser of the following:
The amount of the loss the Board or any Federal Reserve bank would have incurred on the increases in the amount of advances made after the 5-day period referred to in subparagraph (A) if those increased advances had been unsecured.
The interest received on the increases in the amount of advances made after the 5-day period referred to in subparagraph (A).
Federal Reserve To Pay Obligation. The Board shall pay the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation the amount of any liability of the Board under subparagraph (A).
Report. The Board shall report to the Congress on any excess loss liability it incurs under subparagraph (A), as limited by subparagraph (B)(i), and the reasons therefore, not later than 6 months after incurring the liability.
No Obligation To Make Advances. A Federal Reserve bank shall have no obligation to make, increase, renew, or extend any advance or discount under this Act to any depository institution.
Definitions.
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency. The term "appropriate Federal banking agency" has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
Critically Undercapitalized. The term "critically undercapitalized" has the same meaning as in section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
Depository Institution. The term "depository institution" has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
Undercapitalized Depository Institution. The term
"undercapitalized depository institution" means any depository institution which--
is undercapitalized, as defined in section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; or
has a composite CAMEL rating of 5 under the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System (or an equivalent rating by any such agency under a comparable rating system) as of the most recent examination of such institution.
Viable. A depository institution is "viable" if the Board or the appropriate Federal banking agency determines, giving due regard to the economic conditions and circumstances in the market in which the institution operates, that the institution--
is not critically undercapitalized;
is not expected to become critically undercapitalized; and
is not expected to be placed in conservatorship or receivership.
[12 USC 347b(b). As added by act of Dec. 19, 1991 (105 Stat. 2279) and amended by act of Feb. 15, 2006 (119 Stat. 3616).]
*
Previously section 10(b), this section was redesignated by act of Dec. 19, 1991 (105 Stat. 2279).
Back to Top