<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/procurement/tips.htm -->
<!-- title: Federal Reserve Board - Tips for Winning Board Contracts -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T03:59:56.944052Z -->

Tips for Winning Board Contracts
Acquisition Policy
Tips for Winning Board Contracts
Register Your Business
Supplier Registration
Coupa Supplier Enablement
The information below provides additional guidance to supplement the video. If you have questions concerning a specific solicitation or quote, please contact the contract specialist listed in the solicitation. For general questions regarding the Board's acquisition process, please e-mail
Marleitha G. Williams
.
integrity and honesty
adequate resources
Winning the contract depends on
focusing bid on contract deliverables
demonstration of technical capabilities
quality of products and services
comprehensiveness of timeline and schedule
demonstration of quality past performance
competitiveness of product and services price
Common proposal weaknesses
failure to thoroughly address all proposal requirements
failure to convince the Board that you can do the work
failure to mitigate risk—be sure your plan mitigates all risks to the Board and its operations
Evaluation process
clearly defined in the solicitation
evaluates ability to meet requirements
considers technical merits separately from price
technical evaluation performed by a small group of Board technical staff against all proposal requirements
technical evaluation that looks for clarity and comprehensiveness of the bid and expertise and experience of personnel offered
price evaluation that takes into consideration price realism, balance, and offeror's financial viability
calculation of best value based on technical and price (best value may not be low price)
The Board values
plans that minimize risk to the Board and its operations
an ability to complete the job within the established performance period
a demonstration of technical performance and value enhancements
a professional relationship that emphasizes partnership
Additional Tips for Submitting Proposals
Completeness:
Cover all aspects requested in proposal requirements section.
Ask questions and observe process
as during the solicitation process, you may only
interact with Board procurement staff.
Make risk-avoidance a priority
as the Board is always looking to minimize risk to its operations.
Stick to the request
by aligning your proposal to the Board Statement of Work (SOW) and proposal requirements.
Follow all proposals instructions
outlined in Section L by clearly identifying responses to each requirement in the order requested. Ensure all proposals volumes are clearly labeled and contain all required information.
Tips for after the Contract is Awarded
Interactions with the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR)
CORs are technical subject matter experts to provide technical direction only.
The COR
change contract terms,
change SOW requirements, or
add work to the contract.
Only Procurement can modify the contract.
Receipt of payment
All goods or services must meet the terms of the contract.
Invoices must reference the contract number and the appropriate Contract Line Item Numbers (CLINs), as listed on the contract.
CORs approve payment for work completed.
Payment is provided within 30 days of receipt of proper invoice and verification of work performed to satisfaction.
Invoices are paid according to contract specifications.
Other Helpful Information
The Board engages in vendor outreach events.
The Board does not publicly post its solicitations.
To review the
register your company
to do business, please visit our website at
https://www.federalreserve.gov/secure/vendorregistration
.
All bids must be directed to Procurement in accordance with the solicitation.
The Board hosts pre-proposal conferences for solicitations when it believes that doing so will foster a better understanding of critical elements of contract performance.
Sales/marketing pitches in the context of a solicitation are inappropriate. However, the Board hosts and attends vendor fairs during which sales pitches are perfectly acceptable.
Accessible Keys for Video
[Space Bar]
seeks the video forwards and back (5 sec );
[Up/Down Arrows]
increase/decrease volume;
[M]
toggles fullscreen on/off (Except IE 11);
The
key may be used in combination with the
[Enter/Return]
key to navigate and activate control buttons, such as caption on/off.
Back to Top