<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/section11c.htm -->
<!-- title: The Fed - Section 11C. Master Account and Services Database -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T04:00:01.173801Z -->

Section 1. Short title and definitions
Section 2. Federal Reserve Districts
Section 2A. Monetary policy objectives
Section 2B. Appearances Before and Reports to the Congress
Section 3. Branch Offices
Section 4. Federal Reserve Banks
Section 5. Stock Issues; Increase and Decrease of Capital
Section 6. Insolvency of member banks
Section 7. Division of Earnings
Section 8. Conversion of state banks into national banks
Section 9. State Banks as Members
Section 9A. Participation in lotteries prohibited
Section 9B. Resolution of Clearing Banks
Section 10. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Section 10A. Emergency advances to groups of member banks*
Section 10B. Advances to Individual Member Banks*
Section 11. Powers of Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Section 11A. Pricing of Services
Section 11B. Annual Independent Audits of Federal Reserve Banks and Board
Section 11C. Master Account and Services Database
Section 12. Federal Advisory Council
Section 12A. Federal Open Market Committee
Section 13. Powers of Federal Reserve Banks
Section 13A.* Discount of agricultural paper
Section 14. Open-Market Operations
Section 15. Government Deposits
Section 16. Note Issues
Section 17. Deposit of bonds by national banks
Section 18. Refunding Bonds
Section 19. Bank Reserves
Section 20. National bank notes redemption fund as reserve
Section 21. Bank Examinations
Section 22. Offenses of examiners, member banks, officers, and directors
Section 23. Interbank Liabilities*
Section 23A. Relations with affiliates
Section 23B. Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates
Section 24. Real Estate Loans
Section 24A. Investment in Bank Premises or Stock of Corporation Holding Premises
Section 25. Foreign Branches
Section 25A. Banking Corporations Authorized to Do Foreign Banking Business*
Section 25B. Jurisdiction of suits*
Section 25C. Potential Liability on Foreign Accounts
Section 26. [Repealed]
Section 27. Tax on national bank notes
Section 28. Reduction of capital of national banks
Section 29. Civil Money Penalty
Section 30. Saving clause
Section 31. Reservation of right to amend
Section 11C. Master Account and Services Database
(a) Definitions.
Access Request. The term "access request" means a request to a Federal reserve bank for access to a reserve bank master account and services, including any written documentation or formal indication that an entity intends to seek access to a reserve bank master account and services.
Official Accountholder. The term "official accountholder" means—
a foreign state, as defined in section 25B;
a central bank, as defined in section 25B, other than a commercial bank;
a public international organization entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions, and immunities as an international organization under the International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288 et seq.); and
any governmental entity for which the Secretary of the Treasury has directed a Federal reserve bank to receive deposits as fiscal agent of the United States under section 15.
Reserve Bank Master Account And Services. The term "reserve bank master account and services" means an account in which a Federal reserve bank—
receives deposits for an entity other than an official accountholder; or
provides any service under section 11A(b) to an entity other than an official accountholder.
(b) Publishing Master Account and Access Information.
Online Database. The Board shall create and maintain a public, online, and searchable database that contains—
a list of every entity that currently has access to a reserve bank master account and services, including the date on which the access was granted to the extent the date is knowable;
a list of every entity that submits an access request for a reserve bank master account and services after enactment of this section (or that has submitted an access request that is pending on the date of enactment of this section), including whether, and the dates on which, a request—
was submitted; and
was approved, rejected, pending, or withdrawn; and
for each list described in subparagraph (A) or (B), the type of entity that holds or submitted an access request for a reserve bank master account and services, including whether such entity is—
an insured depository institution, as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813);
an insured credit union, as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752); or
a depository institution that is not an insured depository institution or an insured credit union.
Updates. Not less frequently than once every quarter, the Board shall update the database to add any new information required under paragraph (1).
Deadline. Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Board shall publish the database with the information required under paragraph (1).
[12 USC 248c. As added by act of Dec. 23, 2022 (136 Stat. 3419).]
Back to Top