<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/faqs/economy_12765.htm -->
<!-- title: The Fed - How does the globalization of financial markets affect the ability of the Federal Reserve to promote macroeconomic and financial stability? -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T04:00:09.863691Z -->

Most Frequently Asked Questions
Federal Reserve’s Renovation of Two Historic Buildings
About the Fed
Banking and the Financial System
Money, Interest Rates, and Monetary Policy
Credit, Loans, and Mortgages
Currency and Coin
Economy, Jobs, and Prices
Federal Open Market Committee
Regulations
How does the globalization of financial markets affect the ability of the Federal Reserve to promote macroeconomic and financial stability?
As financial markets around the world have become more tightly integrated, financial conditions within the United States have become increasingly subject to influences from beyond our borders. To make effective policy, the Federal Reserve must have as full an understanding as possible of the factors determining financial conditions, economic activity, and inflation in the U.S. economy, whether those influences originate at home or abroad. Consequently, one direct effect of globalization on Federal Reserve operations has been to increase the time and attention devoted to following and understanding developments in other economies, the world trading system, and global capital markets.
While foreign financial conditions are relevant for the United States, globalization has not materially affected the ability of the Federal Reserve to influence financial conditions in the United States. Through its ability to influence interest rates, the Fed retains the capacity to affect the cost of credit to U.S. households and firms. Moreover, the breadth and transparency of U.S. financial markets reduce their vulnerability to disruptions in foreign markets. That said, the Federal Reserve continues to place a high priority on understanding the effects of globalization on the U.S. economy in general and on the conduct and transmission of U.S. monetary policy in particular.
Related Questions
How does the foreign exchange value of the dollar relate to Federal Reserve policy?
How does the Federal Reserve cooperate with foreign policymakers to promote economic growth and financial stability?
Back to Top