<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/faqs/money_12856.htm -->
<!-- title: The Fed - How does the Federal Reserve affect inflation and employment? -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T04:00:09.303861Z -->

Most Frequently Asked Questions
Federal Reserve’s Renovation of Two Historic Buildings
About the Fed
Banking and the Financial System
Money, Interest Rates, and Monetary Policy
Credit, Loans, and Mortgages
Currency and Coin
Economy, Jobs, and Prices
Federal Open Market Committee
Regulations
How does the Federal Reserve affect inflation and employment?
As the Federal Reserve conducts monetary policy, it influences employment and inflation primarily through using its policy tools to affect overall financial conditions—including the availability and cost of credit in the economy.
The Fed's primary tool to conduct monetary policy is the federal funds rate—the rate that banks pay for overnight borrowing in the federal funds market. Changes in the federal funds rate influence other interest rates that in turn influence borrowing costs for households and businesses as well as broader financial conditions.
For example, when interest rates go down, it becomes cheaper to borrow, so households are more willing to buy goods and services, and businesses are in a better position to purchase items to expand their businesses, such as property and equipment. Increased spending by households and businesses creates greater demand for the goods and services that businesses produce, which spurs them to hire more workers, influencing employment. And the stronger demand for goods and services may push wages and other costs higher, influencing inflation. During economic downturns, the Fed may lower the federal funds rate to near zero. In such times, the Fed can use other tools to influence financial conditions in support of its goals.
However, there are many factors that affect inflation and employment. And while the linkages from monetary policy to both inflation and employment are not direct or immediate, monetary policy is an important factor.
Related Questions
What is the money supply? Is it important?
Why has the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance changed over time?
Back to Top