<!-- source_url: https://www.federalreserve.gov/faqs/currency_12771.htm -->
<!-- title: The Fed - How much does it cost to produce currency and coin? -->
<!-- date_fetched: 2025-11-17T04:00:14.585579Z -->

Most Frequently Asked Questions
Federal Reserve’s Renovation of Two Historic Buildings
About the Fed
Banking and the Financial System
Money, Interest Rates, and Monetary Policy
Credit, Loans, and Mortgages
Currency and Coin
Economy, Jobs, and Prices
Federal Open Market Committee
Regulations
How much does it cost to produce currency and coin?
Currency
Each year, the Federal Reserve Board projects the likely demand for new currency and places an order with the Department of the Treasury's Bureau of Engraving and Printing, which produces U.S. currency and charges the Board for the cost of production. The 2025 currency operating budget is $1,040.0 million. The table below provides details on the variable printing costs of Federal Reserve notes for each denomination. The currency budget includes $283.4 million to reimburse for all variable printing costs. The variable costs represent the paper, ink, labor, and direct overhead costs to print each note.
Denomination
Variable Printing Costs
$1 and $2
Note: 1. There is no variable printing cost for $50 notes because there is no planned production of $50 notes in 2025.
Return to text
The currency budget also includes $688.6 million to reimburse for fixed printing costs, which includes indirect manufacturing overhead and support, general and administrative, research and development, and prepress and engraving. Further details about the production costs for Federal Reserve notes are presented in the
2025 Currency Budget (PDF)
.
Annual coin production is determined by the U.S. Mint. Reserve Banks influence this process by providing the Mint with monthly coin orders and a 12-month, rolling coin-order forecast. Reserve Banks purchase coin at face value from the Mint. Further details about coins can be found on the Mint's
website